Task 1: Generic Profiling
Profile a large collection of open data sets and derive metadata that can be used for data discovery, querying, and identification of data quality problems.

For each column in the dataset collection, extract the following metadata
1. Number of non-empty cells
2. Number of empty cells (i.e., cell with no data)
3. Number of distinct values
4. Top-5 most frequent value(s)
5. Data types (a column may contain values belonging to multiple types)

Identify the data types for each distinct column value as one of the following: INTEGER (LONG), REAL, DATE/TIME, TEXT
For each column count the total number of values as well as the distinct values for each of the above data types.

For columns that contain at least one value of type INTEGER / REAL report: Maximum value, Minimum value, Mean, Standard Deviation
For columns that contain at least one value of type DATE report: Maximum value, Minimum value
For columns that contain at least one value of type TEXT report: Top-5 Shortest value(s) (the values with shortest length), Top-5 Longest values(s) (the values with longest length), Average value length

Task 2: Semantic Profiling
Extract more detailed information about the semantics of columns.
Work for a subset of the data sets used in Task 1.

For each column, identify and summarize semantic types present in the column.
These can be generic types (e.g., city, state) or collection-specific types (NYU school names, NYC agency).
For each semantic type T identified, enumerate all the values encountered for T in all columns present in the collection.
Look for the following types and add one or more semantic type labels to the column metadata together with their frequency in the column:
● Person name (Last name, First name, Middle name, Full name)
● Business name
● Phone Number
● Address
● Street name
● City
● Neighborhood
● LAT/LON coordinates
● Zip code
● Borough
● School name (Abbreviations and full names)
● Color
● Car make
● City agency (Abbreviations and full names)
● Areas of study (e.g., Architecture, Animal Science, Communications)
● Subjects in school (e.g., MATH A, MATH B, US HISTORY)
● School Levels (K-2, ELEMENTARY, ELEMENTARY SCHOOL, MIDDLE)
● College/University names
● Websites (e.g., ASESCHOLARS.ORG)
● Building Classification (e.g., R0-CONDOMINIUM, R2-WALK-UP)
● Vehicle Type (e.g., AMBULANCE, VAN, TAXI, BUS)
● Type of location (e.g., ABANDONED BUILDING, AIRPORT TERMINAL, BANK, CHURCH, CLOTHING/BOUTIQUE)
● Parks/Playgrounds (e.g., CLOVE LAKES PARK, GREENE PLAYGROUND)

For example: for a column called Areas_study, you would include (Architecture,10), (‘Animal science’, 25).
Also include the count for any values of type not listed above, e.g., (other, 100).

You will devise different strategies for identifying these types. For example:
- To identify columns with the same type, given a column you can search for other columns with similar content and/or with similar attribute names.
- Some types can be detected using regular expressions (e.g., phone numbers)
- External resources such as ontologies or dictionaries can also be useful to detect some types (e.g., the list of all states in the USA)

Hint: Think about how you can combine multiple strategies to improve the effectiveness of your semantic type detection
